Sugg, Richard, Fairies : A Dangerous History, (Reaktion Books, 2018) 

 

In 1909, Magi McIntire recalled that in 1837 the ‘wee people’ tried to steal her, and that her brother, seeing the fairies dancing around her bed, threw a book to scare them off (p97) 
Fairies filled a niche also filled by vampires and witches, who would suck out blood, soul, and or breath, with fairies taking the representation of life in one's children. This niche would later be filled in by ‘scientific societies’ by the alien abduction, which would take various bodily fluids (pp97-98) 
Fairies or ‘pixies’ were used as children's scary stories as ways to scare children into behaving (p98) 
Fairies stealing children was commonly believed across all of Europe. In Celtic areas the fairies particularly targeted children with blonde hair and blue eyes, and especially boys, and parents who thought their children stolen by the fairies would often go to extreme ends to get the fairies to give them back, mostly through physical abuse such as dunking them into rivers (pp98-99) 
Fairies could be spotted by if the baby cried incessantly, was always hungry, grew slowly, or had wizened features (p99) 
The Victorians first realised that changelings were simply disabled children (p99) 
That some disabilities only come after birth and take time to manifest was a ’smoking gun’ to parents who believed their children stolen by fairies (p100) 
Martin Luther stated the changelings should be drowned as they had no soul, echoing this was Elkanah Settle in 1694 who said that fairy children were ‘half-souled’. Even John Locke (though not believing in Fairies) questioned if disabled children were really a different species, questioning if they lacked a soul (p100) 
Protections from fairies ranged from the basic to the unique. Generally an iron poker was hung over the crib as fairies didn't like iron and a book, typically the bible, was placed under a pillow as fairies didn't like books either. In Ireland it was common to induce a baby to sneeze by putting pepper under their nose as this was meant to instil protection. In Connemara it was still common to dress boys and girls in red petticoats to make it harder for fairies who liked to take young boys to take them. (Pp100-101) 
The son of Patrick Kearns was believed to have been in the process of being taken by the fairies over multiple nights. He used two fairy doctors, Thomas Donovan and Patrick Murphy to conduct a test, consisting of getting the boy to cough with water. When he didn't he was dragged and beaten in the garden before succumbing to his injuries. Despite this being discovered by police, no action was taken against Kearns, and Donovan was only sentenced to one years hard labour, after a judge told a jury who said there seemed to be no motive for murder that there was no way Donovan could be acquitted. Interestingly it was also stated that it may not have been fairies but a misunderstood sign of demonic possession (pp101-102) 
 The case of James and John Mahoney show how children under torture confessed of being fairies. John Mahoney (6) was taken after his father had become convinced that his son, bedridden for two years with scoliosis and who was particularly intelligent, was a fairy. After torturing him with a hot shovel and other implements he confessed that he was a fairy and would send back the real John by morning, but demanded lodgings for the night first. Next morning he was found dead in bed supposedly by natural causes and possibly of ‘terror’ (pp103-104) 
The 1884 case of Phillip Dillon (3), who was severely burned, show that it wasn't just parents but people acting for the ‘good’ of the community, as his neighbours burnt him in his mothers absence  
The wealthy Trevelyan family also show this wasn't just to do with class divides, as the routinely beat their son Walter (2). It was common for him to be beat, left outside in the winter, kept on a cork mattress, and left face down in gravel. They accused him of having been ‘switched with the nurse’, which Simon Young takes to suggest that it was an upper class fear similar to fairies that the nurse, seeing the benefits of an upper-class upbringing, would swap her baby with the families baby (pp105-106)